Scoring at EXPLORE - an explanation
Dear EXPLORERs,
A number of you have had questions about your marks for each sprint and what they mean. This 
communication is meant to address those questions (and hopefully answer one or two you didn’t 
know you had).
 
How do I get marks and what do they mean?
At EXPLORE the Data Science qualification is aligned with SETA, meaning that when you have 
successfully finished with the course, you will have an NQF 5 accredited qualification. Since the 
course is SETA accredited, you don’t "pass" or "fail". You are found either "competent" or "not 
yet competent" in a given area, or “unit standard”. The trains, tests and predicts are built to align 
with these unit standards.
In each Sprint, there are a set number of belt points available. These points are divided among 
Trains, Tests and Predicts and align with the various unit standards. Your overall sprint score is 
an indication of the proportion of available belt points you have gained for that sprint (i.e. a score 
of 70% means that you have gained 70% of the points for that Sprint).
As you go through the course and complete the material, you accumulate points in unit 
standards. You need to accumulate enough points to be deemed "competent". An overall 
"competent" mark equates to about 70% (or approximately 460) of the belt points available in 
the fundamentals phase. However, this is the bare minimum and we expect the majority of our 
students will perform much better than this.
 
So if I don’t get 70% for the fundamentals phase, does that mean I fail the course? Will I 
be kicked out if I do badly in any sprint?
Not at all! Belt points are cumulative, so if you do not have enough belt points at the end of 
fundamentals, you will have plenty of opportunity to accumulate more through the machine 
learning phase (the second six months) to make up the shortfall.
Therefore, you cannot "fail" a sprint and you will not be kicked out of the course. In the unlikely 
event that you do not accumulate the required points throughout the entire course, you will not 
get an accredited qualification, but will still get a certificate of completion stating the tools and 
techniques that you have experience with.
 
Does that mean that any belt points above the required amount are meaningless?
No. Your accumulated belt points are also used to calculate your belt level, which is indicative of 
your mastery of the content. The scales are as follows:
Belt colour	Score (total accumulated belt points)
White:		<15%
Yellow:		>15%
Orange:		>30%
Green:		>40%
Blue:		>50%
Brown:		>65%
Red:		>80%
Black:		>90%
Your belt level will also be displayed on your certificate, so it’s in your best interest to do as well 
as you can, especially if you want to wow future employers.
 
So then how do I track my progress?
Your current belt level and belt score (accumulated total of belt points so far) can be found under 
your profile in Athena. This is the best indicator of your progress. The EGAD diagram shows the 
proportion of the total available belt points that you have earned for each EXPLORE basic pillar 
of Data Science (Explain, Gather, Analyse, Deploy). This is purely for your own enlightenment, 
to give you an idea of where your own strengths lie, but otherwise has no bearing on your marks.

Great! Can you tell me how many points each thing is worth so I know what to focus on?
We’re reluctant to share exact point allocations and weightings for each piece of content. This is 
because we want to discourage “point chasing” and gaming of the system. Many an EXPLORER 
has found themselves in a difficult place because they spent too much time maximizing belt 
points and too little time understanding the material.
However, a VERY rough breakdown is as follows: 33% of points go to Trains, 33% to tests and 
33% to the Predict. This will change slightly depending on the sprint and its requirements but 
holds more or less true throughout.

Help! My points went up/down/disappeared/blew up/took my dog and left in the night!
Athena is a complex beast with lots of calculations going on in the background. Occasionally we 
may also have to slightly change belt point allocations due to errors with tests or submission or 
other administrative gremlins. As such, your belt point totals may vary slightly from time to 
time. If you notice a big change or feel that something is wrong, you are welcome to reach out to 
us at online@explore-ai.net and we will do what we can to help.
 
Thanks for the info, but you didn’t address (insert important thing here).
We’re sure we’ve forgotten something, so if you have any burning questions around this, feel 
free to reach out to us at online@explore-ai.net and we will do our best to give you an accurate 
and honest answer.
