EXPLORE Data Science Academy
Course Outline
explore-datascience.net
explore-datascience.net
 EXPLORE Data Science Academy
Course Outline
At EXPLORE we pride ourselves on a premium learning experience, whatever avenue you choose to 
pursue with us.  We have a variety of offerings to suit your pocket and your circumstances.
Our ﬂagship Data Science course is best experienced on campus, where the immersive experience 
provides the best preparation for the working world.  Our graduates are sought-after and praised for how 
quickly and effectively they step into new arenas of work.  These courses come with our innovative 
Money-Back Promise. 
If however on-campus study is not an option for you, our online courses provide an excellent framework to 
amplify your current skills, and equip you with brand new ones to apply in your ﬁeld of expertise.  
 
Monthly 
Course Total Cost  Duration Hours /day Venue Next Start Date
instalment 
Data Science* R60 000 R10 000 6 Months 8  Hours Jhb 6 July 2020
Data Science* R60 000 R10 000 6 Months 8 Hours Cape Town 6 July 2020
Data Science - Online   R30 000*  R3 000 12 Months 2-3 Hours On-line 6 July 2020
Part Time (if paid upfront)
* EXPLORE’s Money-back Promise applies to full-time on-campus Data Science courses
T’s and C’s available on www.explore-datascience.net. 
explore-datascience.net
 Frequently Asked Questions  
Q: How to apply?
A: All applications happen via our website: www.explore-datascience.net.  Select the course and location 
(on campus or online) which works for you and click Apply Now.  For on campus study, there are 
various requirements, for online applications it is simpler. 
Q: Do I qualify to apply?
A: For on campus study there are some qualifying criteria, which can be found in the T’s and C’s of our 
Money-Back Promise (on the website).  For online study, anyone qualiﬁes! 
Q: What is the best course for me?
A: This depends on what your constraints are - can you study full time on campus, or do you need the 
ﬂexibility of online study.  On-campus is the premium experience, backed up with a Money-Back 
Promise! Still not sure… Use our handy tool to ﬁnd the course for you. Look for the link under ‘Find your 
course’  
Q: What qualification will I have at the end?
A: We are SETA Accredited and our Data Science course is at NQF level 5.  Upon completion of our 
courses, you will receive a completion certiﬁcate.
Q: Is it industry recognised?
A: EXPLORE Data Science Academy graduates are Amazing People, doing Amazing Things. Our Alumni 
are  highly sought after and >90% of them have found industry related employment within 6 months 
of graduating. 
Q: I've registered but didn't get confirmation?
A: First step is to check your Spam or Junk mail folders.  Sometimes the internet gremlins hide our emails 
there.  Alternatively, log into your student dashboard and check that you completed all the steps for 
application. Look for the sign-in button on the top right of the website page.
Q: What support is available for online students?
A: Webinars will be scheduled for content brieﬁng, and, we use the Slack chat platform which gives you 
access to the student community and course facilitators.  The course is intensive and relies on 
self-learning and discipline to learn all the skills included
Q: Are there career services for online students?
A: Our career services team is willing to help and support all students.  There is a host of useful material in 
our online learning platform which is available to all EXPLORE students.  One-on-one career services 
sessions can be arranged if motivated for. 
For more information:
Email us: admissions@explore-ai.net
Visit: explore-datascience.net
Check out our FAQs on explore-datascience.net
explore-datascience.net
 Frequently Asked Questions  
Q: Am I eligible for sponsorship?
A: Corporate sponsorship is available to South African Nationals between the ages of 18 and 35 for our full 
time on-campus Courses (1yr long).  Competition for these places is extremely high. 
Q: How does the application process work?
A: At EXPLORE we value aptitude and attitude, and we assess these traits through a stepwise application 
process for on-campus study:  
Step 1:  Application and online aptitude test  - assesses thinking skills, logic and reasoning
Step 2:  Online Bootcamp - a combination of learning and testing 
Step 3:  Interview 
Step 4:  Successful applicants join our ranks as an EXPLORER
Once you’ve registered for a course, you can track your progress on the student dashboard on our 
website - see what steps lie ahead, when they kick off and when they close.
Q: Can I work part time while studying on campus?
A: We do not recommend that you have any other commitments while studying Full Time on campus. 
Our on campus courses require a full time commitment of 40 hours per week. Students who have 
attempted to juggle commitments have found that it is not viable or sustainable.
Q: Is there a part time study option?
A: Our online courses are ideal for part time study.  They require discipline and focus to complete.
Q: What if I realise that Data Science isn’t for me?
A: We offer a pay as you go structure to our self funded students. If at any time you wish to discontinue 
the course, just send us 1 months notice.  
Q: If I am unsuccessful, can I apply again?
A: Spots are limited and highly coveted, and we are not able to offer a place to everyone. We run several 
intakes throughout the year. If your interest in Data Science remains, please apply again. 
For more information:
Email us: admissions@explore-ai.net
Visit: www.explore-datascience.net
Check out our FAQs on explore-datascience.net
explore-datascience.net
 