COURSE CATALOGUE
2020
 Table of Contents
EXPLORE Overview 02
EMPLOYED Learnerships 03
UNEMPLOYED Learnerships 04
Skills Programmes
Introduction to Data Science 05
Programming 06
Working with Data 07
Visualisation 08
Machine Learning 09
Our Courses are For You if you Want to  10
How your employees will Learn 11
Requirements 12
Your Success Team 13
Your Teaching Team 14
EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real world 15
Contact Information 16
01
 EXPLORE Overview
EXPLORE is a next generation Learning Institution that teaches your current and 
prospective employees the skills of the future. From Data Science to Data 
Engineering, from Machine Learning to Deep Learning we deliver cutting edge 
courses to satisfy their hunger to learn. Our Programmes are built by an amazing 
Faculty - we employ some of the world’s most talented Scientists who have 
experience solving diﬃcult problems on a global stage.
Our philosophy is to teach our learners how to solve problems in the real world. 
We emphasise teamwork, collaboration and working within constraints 
under deadlines while understanding context, audience and implementation 
challenges. We are not a theoretical institution (although we cover the theory) - we 
are a ‘practical, hands-on, roll-up-your-sleeves and get stuﬀ done’ kind of 
institution. As real-world Scientists who have delivered impact in the world of work 
so we’re well positioned to deliver these skills to your organisation.
EXPLORE launched during 2013 and since then has taught 1,000’s of learners and 
solved many problems for businesses across multiple Industries across the world. 
We’re reinventing education and invite you to join us.
02
 EMPLOYED Learnerships
EXPLORE oﬀers a range of NQF Level 5 learnerships that cover the full range of 
data skills that an organisation requires to thrive in the digital age. These 
learnerships are typically well suited to entry to expert level IT and business 
professionals who want to upskill in the latest technologies.
Data Science Data Engineering
Learn how to describe,  Learn how to engineer 
predict and prescribe  powerful data platforms 
key business metrics that run large Enterprises.
Data Analytics Business Intelligence
Learn how to gather and analyse  Learn how to tell stories using 
data to deliver business insights  data with beautiful visualisations 
to executives. 
EXPLORE oﬀers a range of 1-year learnerships for employers to send their workforce on. From 
courses for beginners to advanced Users EXPLORE has a learnership that is ﬁt for your 
requirements. 
03
 UNEMPLOYED Learnerships
EXPLORE oﬀers learnerships that cover the full range of data skills that an 
organisation requires to thrive in the digital age. These courses are well suited for 
smart and ambitious youngsters who will be leaders in your organisation in the 
future. 
Data Science Data Engineering
Learn how to describe,  Learn how to engineer 
predict and prescribe  powerful data platforms 
key performance   that run large Enterprises in 
metrics for business  the cloud.
value
Data Analytics Business Intelligence
Learn how to gather and analyse  Learn how to tell stories using 
data to deliver business insights  data with beautiful visualisations 
to executives.  using the latest visualisation 
tools available 
EXPLORE oﬀers a range of 1-year learnerships for employers to sponsor young talent - this 
talent then becomes your pipeline of digital skills into the future. These programmes can be 
structured as Learnerships, Internships or Bursaries and allow you to ﬁnd the best of the 
best outside of your organisation who will then be the future leaders of your business. 
04
 Skills Programmes
Introduction to Data Science
Our Introduction to Data Science courses are suited for non-technical audiences who want an 
overview of what Data Science is and how it can be used by them to improve their performance 
in their day to day roles. The courses are fun and interactive where key concepts are introduced 
and real-world examples are workshopped to gain a better understanding of the technologies 
emerging.
Introduction to Data Science
Data Science for Managers
What is Data Science? 
 What does best practice look like?
How to use data to visualise a problem  
How building models can help forecast and predict 
Data Literacy
What is Data Science?
Why is data so important?
How to work with data 
Building dashboards to visualise performance 
 Data Privacy, Governance and Security 
05
 Skills Programmes
Programming
Our Programming courses teach Users how to work in Python to be able to manipulate large 
data sets and perform calculations on them to be able to analyse the data for insight. From simply 
‘running a for loop’ to building advanced algorithms we cover a broad range of subject matter 
to get you comfortable with one of the most powerful programming languages used today.
Programming
Programming in Python
Installing Jupyter environment 
Working with strings, numbers and booleans
Conditionals, loops, boolean logic  
Creating and working with functions 
Advanced Programming in Python
Pseudo-code, unit-testing, code reviews and Github
Linear Programming
Working with numpy and pandas 
Sorting and greedy algorithms 
 Creating and working with advanced algorithms
06
 Skills Programmes
Working with Data
Working with data is foundational to be being able to unlock the power of Data Science. 
Being able to clean, transform, mine and mung large data sets is a critical skills for any Data 
Scientist. We teach you to work in SQL, from 
Working with Data
SQL
SELECT, FROM, WHERE 
Working with JOINS
SQL Aggregations 
Working with Sub-Queries
Big Data engineering
Data cleaning
Normalisation of data structures
Advanced JOINS 
Optimising for performance 
Advanced queries 
07
 Skills Programmes
Visualisation
Being able to visualise data and tell compelling stories is a key capability of the Data 
Scientists toolkit. Using the latest dashboarding technologies is a key skill to deliver the 
insights and recommendations that your data is telling you. Our courses cover the key principles 
and applications of being able to tell elegant stories using various visualisation techniques.
Visualisation
Visualisation
Data Visualisation fundamentals 
Designing a dashboard
Working with PowerBI 
Telling stories in PowerBI
Advanced Visualisation
Setting Data relationships 
Planning, designing and proto-typing dashboards
Advanced PowerBI functions 
Advanced PowerBI visuals 
Dashboard Project 
08
 Skills Programmes
Machine Learning
The latest advances in machine learning have been astounding. With the powerful computers of 
today coupled with amazing algorithms machines can know see, hear, read and speak at the 
level of humans. We teach your employees how these technologies work so that they can 
use them in your business going forwards.
Machine Learning
Machine Learning
Pre-processing data techniques
Linear and logistic regression
Decision trees and random forests
Support vector machines and K-nearest neighbours
Unsupervised learning: clustering algorithms, PCA 
Deep Learning
Natural Language Processing
Sentiment classiﬁcation
Artiﬁcial Neural networks 
Recurrent Neural Networks 
 Convolutional Neural Networks 
09
 Our Courses are For You If You Want To
Our courses are 100% for you if you are looking to:
Upskill and reskill your workforce
EXPLORE are experts at working with large organisations to 
transform their workforce to be digitally enabled so they can thrive 
in the digital age.
Have Content that is tailored
EXPLORE works with you to make sure the courses are 
ﬁt-for-purpose. We tailor our courses to your needs and deliver 
projects that are suited to your environments
Have a Support Team
EXPLORE has a large Faculty of Scientists with lots of Academic and 
real-world experience who are available to support your 
employees through the learning process. 
Score BBBEE Points
We’re a SETA accredited Level 4 Service Provider and understand 
how to optimise for your BBBEE Scorecard
10
 Who Should Take These Courses?
Our courses geared for a large range of audiences - from non-technical newcomers to the 
ﬁeld - to advanced analysts looking to reﬁne their abilities. Our courses will be beneﬁcial to 
professionals who need to rapidly upskill and enhance their data science toolkit with 
demonstrable and practical skills.
It is also beneﬁcial to professionals working in a range of business areas, including but not 
limited to marketing, sales, ﬁnance, and operations who want to learn how to use data 
and programming to increase eﬃciencies and identify new opportunities for their 
organisation.
How Your Employees Learn
Our courses are broken down into easily digestible bite-sized chunks and delivered via our 
world-class technology solution. We deliver a combination of Online and On Campus solutions that 
are set by your needs supported by our world-class Faculty who are their to assist whenever help is 
required. 
Our courses are fun, intuitive, video-based with loads of assessments for your employees to track 
their progress. You get regular reports to see how how your cohorts are doing that show 
attendance, performance and coping metrics.  
Work through your downloadable and online instructional material
Interact with your peers and learning facilitators through real-time chat 
platforms and regular live webinars
Enjoy a wide range of interactive content, including video lectures, coding 
challenges, hackathons, and presentations
Investigate real-world case studies  
Learn how to use Jupyter Notebook, GitHub, Power BI, AWS, and various 
machine learning models
Apply what you learn each week to quizzes and ongoing project 
submissions, culminating in the ability to solve a problem using statistical 
learning on a world data set
11
 Software Requirements
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
Basic computer literacy is essential for successful completion of the course. To complete the 
course, you will need a current email account and access to a computer and the internet, as well as 
a PDF Reader. You may need to make use of the Google oﬃce suite, which is free to anyone with a 
Gmail account. Alternatively, Microsoft Oﬃce applications (such as PowerPoint and Word) may be 
used. We recommend using Google Chrome to access the course, but any popular browser should 
suﬃce.
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
● Recommended OS: Since we make use of Windows based apps (such as Power BI), Windows 10 
is recommended (Windows 7 minimum)
● Processor: Minimum i3. Baseline higher than 2GHz 
● RAM: Minimum 4GB 
● Bandwidth: 20GB data per month should be suﬃcient, but will vary based on your personal 
activity 
● Communication: Webcam and Microphone
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Certain activities may require additional software and resources. In such cases, we will ensure that 
they will operate properly on a device with the above-mentioned speciﬁcations and will be clearly 
communicated to you during the completion of the course. Please note that Google, Vimeo, YouTube, 
Udemy and Datacamp may be used in our course delivery, and if these services are blocked in your 
jurisdiction, you may have diﬃculty in accessing course content. Please check with a Course 
Consultant before registering for this course if you have any concerns about this aﬀecting your 
experience with the Online Campus.
12
 Your Success Team
EXPLORE has a range of Faculty members at hand to assist you if you get stuck during your learning 
journey. We have experts readily available to assist you for when things get tricky - they have a wealth 
of experience with the material and are a friendly message away to help you on your way.
Head Tutor
A subject matter expert who'll guide you through content-related 
challenges. 
Success Manager
Your one-on-one support available during working hours (8am-5pm 
SAST) to resolve any challenges that you may have
Administration Support
Available 24/7 to solve your software, tech and administrative queries 
and concerns. 
13
 Your Teaching Team
These EXPLORERs built the course you will go through - they have loads of experience working with 
the tools and technologies you will learn and had fun building something awesome for you to learn.
SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT
Jaco Jansen van Rensburg
Lead Instructor
Jaco is a Lead Data Scientist in the EXPLORE Data Science Academy. He has spent the bulk of his 
career on scientiﬁc and industrial research and holds a PhD in Mechanical Engineering with a focus 
on mathematical modelling and optimisation.
YOUR COURSE CO-CONVENORS
These subject matter experts guide the course design and appear in a number of course videos, 
along with a variety of industry professionals. 
Jonathan Gerrand
Lead Instructor
Jonathan is an electrical engineer specialising in biomedical image processing and machine learning 
(MSc). Having been a founding member of the Data Science for Impact and Decision Enablement 
(DSIDE) program within the CSIR, he is passionate about teaching, innovating for good, and equipping 
others to reason within a data driven world. Jonathan loves the outdoors, is unashamedly nerdy, and 
relishes a compelling debate.
Jonathan Botha
Data Scientist
Jonathan has his PhD in Genetics. He decided to leave the world of Academia and pair his unique 
perspective and insight with Data Science in order to see what strange and interesting things unfold. 
He also unashamedly prefers tea to coﬀee.
14
 EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real world
At EXPLORE we focus on building your employee’s ability to solve problems in the real 
world. Building things that work and make a diﬀerence is hard - that’s what we teach.
We’re not a traditional learning institution that spends weeks teaching matrix multiplication on a 
whiteboard (although understanding that is useful) - we’re a practical, solution-oriented 
institution that teaches our students to work in teams, under pressure, with deadlines 
while understanding context, constraints and the audience.
Our courses are typically broken into Sprints where we teach a core set of concepts within the 
framework of solving a problem in a team with a tight deadline.
1 2 3
Our courses are practical and applications-based with lots of examples to get your employees 
comfortable with the new concepts, tools and technologies emerging.
15
 COURSE 
CATALOGUE
2020
Transform your workforce today by connecting with EXPLORE. Your 
employees have a range of a Data Science, Data Analytics, Business 
Intelligence  or Data Engineering courses to choose from.
For Enquiries Mail:
enterprise@explore-ai.net
General Enquiries Mail:
general@explore-ai.net
WWW.EXPLORE-DATASCIENCE.NET
 