DATA SCIENCE
for EXECUTIVES
PROSPECTUS
 Table of Contents
1. EXPLORE Overview
2. Why Data Science?
3. Curriculum Overview
a. Module 1: What is Data Science?
b. Module 2: Data-Driven Decision-Making
c. Module 3: Deploying the Right Skills
4. EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real world
5. Contact Information 
 EXPLORE Overview
EXPLORE is a next generation Learning 
Institution  that  teaches  students  the 
skills of the future. From Data Science to 
Data Engineering to Machine Learning 
to  Deep  Learning  we  deliver  cutting 
edge courses to satisfy your hunger to 
learn
learn. Our Programmes are built by an amazing Faculty -  we 
employ some of the world’s most talented Scientists who have 
experience solving difﬁcult problems on a global stage. 
Our philosophy is to teach our students how to solve problems 
in the real world. We emphasise teamwork, collaboration and 
working  within  constraints,  under  pressure,  with  deadlines 
while  understanding  context,  audience  and  implementation 
challenges. We are not a theoretical institution (although we 
cover  the  theory)  -  we  are  a  ‘practical,  hands-on, 
roll-up-your-sleeves and get stuff done’ kind of institution. As 
real-world Scientists who have delivered impact in the world of 
work we’re well positioned to deliver these skills. 
EXPLORE  launched  during  2013  and  since  then  has  taught 
1,000s of students and solved many problems for businesses 
across multiple Industries across the world. We’re reinventing 
education and invite you to join us to change things for the 
better.
 
 Why Data Science?
Four megatrends are fundamentally changing the shape of our 
world: 
1. Vast amounts of data are being generated every minute. 
2. The  processing  speed  of  our  machines  is  increasing 
exponentially.
3. We  now  have  cloud  providers  who  can  store  insane 
amounts of data for a few dollars. 
4. Powerful  open  source  algorithms  that  can  read,  write, 
translate and see are now available to everyone. 
Data Science is the skillset used to harness the power of these 
tectonic  shifts  in  our  world.  With  the  Data  Scientist’s  tool-kit 
almost any problem can now be solved.
It is no surprise that Data Scientists are one of the most highly 
paid and in demand skills of the 21st Century. In fact, the job 
‘Data  Scientist’  was  rated  the  ‘sexiest  profession  of  the  21st 
Century’ by the Harvard Business Review.
 Curriculum Overview
This course will help you - a business leader or executive - to 
harness  the  data  likely  already  present  in  your  organisation, 
utilise  insights  from  technical  analytics  teams  to  inform  the 
direction of your business, and deploy the right technical skills 
in order to succeed as a data-driven company.
Duration: 8 weeks Time Per Day: 1.5 hours
Course Difficulty: Intermediate
Pre-Requisite Skills: None; Leadership experience beneﬁcial
Phase  Module  Duration
Introduction What is Data Science? Principles &  2 weeks
Trends
Steering the Ship Data-Driven Decision-Making 3 weeks
Attitude & Aptitude Deploying the Right Skills 3 weeks
 Module 1
What is Data Science?
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3
An introduction to the principles, trends, terminology and 
common practices of data science.
What is covered in Module 1:
Fundamentals
➔ Industry terminology
Introduction
➔ The EXPLORE data science framework
➔ Tools of the trade
➔ A brief history of data science
State of Data 
➔ Current global trends
Science
➔ Data science in action worldwide
➔ Problem statement for the rest of the course
Use Cases
➔ Introducing the dataset
 Module 2
Data-Driven Decision-Making
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Project: Deliver a report summarising the state of data in your 
organisation, with clear problems identiﬁed and 
proposed solutions.
What is covered in Module 2:
Data Identiﬁcation
➔ Where is your data stored?
Fundamentals
➔ How much is there of it?
➔ What type of data is it?
Business Alignment
➔ What can be improved with data?
Objectives
➔ Deﬁning KPIs and goals
➔ Collecting the right data
Measuring Success
➔ Understanding predictive models
Performance
➔ Statistical signiﬁcance and hypothesis testing
➔ Classiﬁcation vs. regression
 Module 3
Deploying the Right Skills
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Project: Deliver a report stating a clear data-driven direction for 
your business, including potential hires and technology 
deployments.
What is covered in Module 3:
People
➔ Identifying the skills you have and those you 
Aptitude
need
➔ Building a data science/analytics team
Technology
➔ Cloud providers
Hardware
➔ Pipelines: gathering, transforming, storing data
➔ The importance of reporting and dashboards
Software
➔ Data visualisation software
➔ Choosing types of databases and 
programming languages
➔ AGILE development practices
Dev Ops
➔ Critical resources
➔ Assigning responsibility appropriately
 EXPLORE Philosophy: 
Solving problems in the real world
At EXPLORE we focus on building our students’ abilities to solve 
problems in the real world. Building things that work and make 
a difference is hard - that’s what we teach. 
We’re not a traditional learning institution that spends weeks 
teaching  matrix  multiplication  on  a  whiteboard  (although 
understanding  that  is  useful)  -  we’re  a  practical, 
solution-oriented institution that teaches our students to work 
in teams, under pressure, with deadlines while understanding 
context, constraints and the audience. 
Our courses are typically broken into Sprints where we teach a 
core set of concepts within the framework of solving a problem 
in a team with a tight deadline.
Students cycle from Sprint to Sprint solving different problems 
in  different  teams  as  they  build  this  core  muscle  over  the 
course.
 Contact Information
For any admissions related enquiries mail us on: 
admission@explore-ai.net
For any general enquiries mail us on: 
general@explore-ai.net 
Visit: www.explore-datascience.net 
 