How to structure
your Data Science
Capability
What makes sense for you?
 Managing the organisation’s data function
Where to house your Data Science capability involves several key design decisions. 
Companies typically pursue one of four models:
Business unit led with
Business unit led
central support
If the business units in the organi- When the business units are ana-
zation manage their own data sets  lytically self-sufﬁcient but there are 
and have internal analytics capabil- many BU’s it often makes sense to 
ities, they can run their own analyt- leverage the support of a central 
ics functions with limited coordina- capability.
tion.
Center of Excellence Fully centralized
An independent centre oversees  A Corporate Function is set up and 
the company’s Data efforts. Units  takes direct responsibility for iden-
pursue initiatives under the CoE’s  tifying, prioritizing and delivering 
guidance and coordination. all Data initiatives.
1
 It is important to note that IT does not own any of the models above. While IT often 
plays a critical role in providing and maintaining the infrastructure and tools 
required to execute the Analytics initiatives, it is critical to note that business runs 
and owns the functions. 
So which model is best? That depends mainly on:
1. EXISTING ANALYTICS CAPABILITIES
Companies with existing deep analytics capabilities can rely on a generally decen-
tralized approach but this is an exception to the rule from what we’ve seen.
2. STRATEGIC AMBITION
Companies that are fully data-driven organisations, need to maintain talent and 
focus close to the most important business problems - which is most suited to a 
centralized approach. 
For any organisation, the choice of structure is not ﬁxed for the long-term, but may 
change  many  times  as  the  analytics  maturity  and  ambition  of  the  company 
evolves. 
From our experience many companies ﬁnd that a Centre of Excellence has the 
1. A Centre of Excellence enables BU’s to share learnings and best practice. 
2. It allows the business to build a large  set of data lakes that usually allows 
insights that would otherwise not have been possible. 
3. The Centre of Excellence enables synergies and scale benefits and is often 
the best mechanism for an organisation to accelerate its Data Science jour-
ney.
2
 Setting up a Centre of Excellence
This is not a quick or easy task. It requires strong analytics leadership as well as an 
A-Team of Data Scientists, Engineers, Analysts and Analytics Translators. Setting 
up a central unit like this typically takes 12-18 months and, to make a success of it, 
requires bold leadership that steps on toes and upsets the status quo.
Beyond the center of excellence (COE), employees at all levels need to be trained.
Senior Leaders Managers
Business leaders of a  Business users (ie, mid-level 
transformation or a use-case  managers) of  the outputs of 
implementation analytics models and insights
Board
Top Team
Analytics COE Business-unit 1 Business-unit 2
Data  Data 
Design
Science Enginerring
Analytics Specialists Analytics Translators
Design and build analytics  Collaborate with the business to 
models Iterate/reﬁne models  understand the need and can 
based on business and user  guide analytics design to meet 
3
 Our Recommendations
Choose the structure that makes the most sense for
your current business taking into account your analytics
maturity and strategic ambition. Re-evaluate this
decision frequently to re-assess the role of Data Science
in the organisation and what structure best delivers the
outcomes you require.
Setting up a Centre of Excellence has many benefits,
but requires the coordination and commitment of the
entire organisation, something which takes extensive
time and effort. 
When no single structure makes sense for an
organisation, consider a hybrid model e.g. managing
outsourced and remote talent vs full-time data resources.
4
 ABOUT EXPLORE
EXPLORE is a next generation learning institution on a mission to deliver Digital 
Skills at scale. It has worked with many Blue Chips, both locally and globally, help-
ing them transform to become more Data-Driven and Insights-led.
Our services include:
BUILDING A PIPELINE OF DATA UPSKILLING YOUR
TALENT FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION CURRENT WORKFORCE
EXPLORE teaches a range of cours- We have a range of short and long 
es that include Data Science, Data  courses for your workforce so that 
Analytics, Data Engineering and  they are ready to reset their skill-sets 
Data Translation where you can  and turbo-charge their careers into 
sponsor the next generation of  the Digital Age.
digital talent.
PLACING SCARCE DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND
SKILLS INTO YOUR BUSINESS SERVICES
We have access to a long list of  We have some of the best Scientists 
talented skills that we can match to  around who have decades of experi-
your company’s needs to best set  ence solving problems, both locally 
you up for success. and globally. Currently we’re work-
ing for Blue Chips in South Africa 
and across the UK in the Utulities 
and Financial Services industries.
5
 EXPLORE-DIGITAL.NET
 