Becoming
an Insights-Led
Organisation
Restarting the journey
 The Sexiest Career in the World
Ever since The Harvard Business Review published that ‘Data Science is the Sexiest 
Career of the 21st Century’, executives around the world have had a tough time of 
it. Boards, CEOs and Analytics Heads have felt pressure to build ‘Data-Driven’ and 
‘Insights-Led’ organisations.
Although organisations have been ‘doing advanced analytics’ for decades many 
have been struggling to earn a real, tangible return on their data efforts propor-
tional to the hype. Boards, CEOs and Investors are becoming impatient as the 
promise of the latest advances do not seem to be landing in the organisation.
Our experience is that organisations are still battling to capture the signiﬁcant 
beneﬁts that Data Science has to offer. We have found that there is not yet a 
common language or a standard set of methodologies, processes and approaches 
to navigate this fast-moving ﬁeld.
Today an organisation’s reﬂex is to hire a team of Data Scientists and hope that the 
magic will ﬂow. This, however, is not how the story unfolds. What happens is usual-
ly somewhat different: a company hires an expensive team of Data Scientists who 
build complex models that no-one really understands and that never make it into 
production. Circumspection sets in and soon the C-Suite views the Data Science 
effort as yet another fad next to a long list of failed initiatives.
This paper serves to share how we think an Organisation can (re)start its journey to 
being an Insights-Led organisation.  
THE SEXIEST CAREER
IN THE WORLD
1
 Better, faster, cheaper
We look at an organization as a combination of decisions that are being made. 
Typically there are thousands of decisions being made every day. These decisions 
drive Enterprise Value. Some decisions are incredibly important and are signiﬁcant 
levers of value. For example, to whom a bank gives credit and at what interest rate 
is a critical decision. How well this decision is made can fundamentally impact the 
value of the enterprise.
WE MAINTAIN THAT EVERY DECISION A BUSINESS MAKES IS DELIVERED
By a combination of  Using a body of  To optimise for a 
humans and machines evidence and intuition particular outcome
Every one of these decisions can improve significantly - a combination of better, 
faster and/or cheaper – by using the latest advances in Data Science.
The job of the organisation is to agree on the big decisions and mobilise Data 
teams around making those decisions better, faster and/or cheaper.
To start the Data Science journey the Executive team must work together to:
1. Articulate the Opportunity Space. The Executive team must generate a set 
of Use Cases across the business where they think signiﬁcant value could be 
unlocked.
2. Evaluate the Opportunities. A consistent framework for evaluating each 
opportunity must be agreed and then each Use Case evaluated using the 
chosen framework. From here a prioritisation process can begin.
3. Prioritise the Opportunities. Once there is a common language for discuss-
ing the Opportunities the team can start ﬁghting for what to do when. The 
process is often a battle. Executives disagree. Emotions run high. This pro-
cess is not easy.
2
 4. Allocate resources accordingly. After the prioritised list has been agreed 
the team must allocate resources to deliver the opportunities. Often inter-
nal resources are insufﬁcient to get everything done. The Executive should 
consider using external suppliers when it is sensible to do so - often external 
solutions will be better positioned than your internal teams to deliver value. 
Be open to that.
5. Deliver value. After the long journey of agreeing who does what when, the 
hard work starts. The business must execute on the plans it has set. We pro-
pose that agile, multi-disciplined Data teams contract with business with 
signed-off scorecards, business sponsors and check-points to ensure deliv-
ery stays on track.
DELIVER
5
VALUE
ALLOCATE RESOURCES
4
 ACCORDINGLY
PRIORITISE THE
3
OPPORTUNITIES
EVALUATE THE
2
 OPPORTUNITIES
ARTICULATE THE
1
OPPORTUNITY SPACE
3
 Having spent time with many Executive Teams we propose the process as set out 
above. We include some of the tools and frameworks that we ﬁnd work well to 
structure and guide the process below. We give some real-world examples to give 
the process some colour.
1. ARTICULATE THE OPPORTUNITY SPACE
Step 1: Each Executive works with his/her teams to uncover the big decisions 
that drive value in their area. For a Marketing Executive this may be ‘Do I 
market on television or via Social Media?’ and ‘What is the best time to air my 
radio advertisements?’. For an Operations Executive it may be ‘Where do I 
build my next branch?’ and ‘How do I reduce fraudulent claims?’
 
Step 2: Each Executive must then prioritise the Top 5-7 Decisions in each of 
their areas. Often it is obvious what the big ticket items are and the team aligns 
quickly on the big decisions that they need help on. Other times it may not be 
clear and teams disagree.
 
Step 3: Once the Top 5-7 Decisions have been agreed it is necessary to articu-
late each as a Problem Statement. This task, which sounds simple, is difficult 
and critical to get right. The framing of the Problem Statement drives the 
problem-solving process and, if carelessly phrased, can lead teams down blind 
alleys.
An  example  of  a  good  Problem  Statement:  ‘Should  we  build  a  branch  in 
suburb X, and, if so, what size investment is optimal?’ An example of a poor 
Problem Statement: ‘Where should I build a bank branch?’
 
Step 4: The entire Executive then meet as a group. Each bring their Problem 
Statements to the table. These Problem Statements are then put down onto a 
single page for the team to have a single view of the Opportunity Space avail-
able to them.
NEXT PAGE IS AN EXAMPLE OF A TYPICAL BANK’S OPPORTUNITY SPACE
4
 BELOW IS AN EXAMPLE OF A TYPICAL BANK’S OPPORTUNITY SPACE
CREDIT  MARKETING & PRODUCT  CUSTOMER  BILLING &   SUPPORT 
SCORING OPERATIONS DEVELOPMENT SALES COMPILANCE SERVICE COLLECTION FUNCTIONS
Customer Proﬁting
Optimising 
Branch  All Quality 
Locations Assurance
Scoial Network Analysis
CAIINMPTAPEBRRIOLNIVATEILE  S RSecaolr-eti mUped Carteindgit  BrOanpcthim Riosilnl-go ut PSeercsmoneanlitzeedd M Maarrkkeettiningg/A/Addvveerrttisisiningg TRFCea Sl-ctoimrineg  CShearvtBicoet  RReevael-Dntuiemete eAc sLtiseouanrkaangcee    HR SAtanfaf lCysuisltural 
HR Productivity 
Analysis
Up-Sell And Cross-Sell Off Internal/External 
DiBgiutaildl Binrgan ac h Effective & Efﬁcient Campaign Migrant SOeprvtiicSmetai sCfafe tniotnre  HRP eHrifroinrmg eHrisgh 
Churn Prediction & Pervention Fraud Prevention and Management
Service Optimization for High Value Customers
IMPROVE  Service 
OPESFRXEFOIRESDRVTUIIINNCCEGGT  S/ Big Data Credit  Optimising  Improving Contactability vIima TpAernxoatv/leSympsieseencth   OCopltliemctiisoinngs  CAalHln PRdui dFbianlitcde isDn Iagnt cal. 
Scoring (eg  Branch Lay-out/
Using Social  processes Improving Engagement on Calls to Customers
Media * External 
Data)
Sales 
ChatBot
BUILD NEW  Big Data Digital Marketing
PRODUCT/
SERVICE 
Using Big Data  Up-sell New Non-banking Products 
to set Digital UX  Use Tx Data to Build New Products
Journeys
The next task is then to evaluate each opportunity in a consistent manner so that 
the business can prioritise what to do when.
2. EVALUATE THE OPPORTUNITIES
Now that the Executive has a set of opportunities to consider what follows is the 
difﬁcult task of deciding what opportunity to do when. All opportunities are not 
made equal. Some are more difﬁcult than others. Some are ten times more valu-
able than the rest. Some require skills that the organization do not have.
 
The Executive must align by scoring a number of criteria for each Opportunity that 
can be used to prioritise the list.
BELOW IS AN EXAMPLE THE CRITERIA THAT WE HAVE USED ACROSS A 
NUMBER OF ORGANISATIONS
5
 Problem Statement
1
Clear articulation of Problem to 
Solve
Value to Unlock
2
Clear Valuation of Opportunity 
(NPV)
Difﬁculty
3
Ease of Implementation
KPI(s)
4
KPIs to Track
Resource Required
5
People / Training Tools Investment
Approach
6
How will Problem be Approached? 
What methodologies used?
Time To Complete
7
Estimate of time to complete?
Milestones
8
Key Milestones Key Go / No go 
Checkpoints
6
 3. PRIORITISE THE OPPORTUNITIES
Once the opportunities have been set and evaluated it is the difﬁcult task of the 
team to agree the prioritised list. Part art, part science, this is often a colourful pro-
cess where each team member will ﬁght for the Use Case(s) that they have put 
forward. 
- To weight the factors selected in the previous step and then generate a 
‘scientific answer’ to what the priorities should be
- Have an afternoon workshop where the team goes through the Opportu-
nities and then votes (eg. using Google Forms) for their Top 5 Use Cases
- To agree a Decision Maker (eg. CEO) who has the ﬁnal say at the end of the 
process
4. ALLOCATING RESOURCES ACCORDINGLY
Once the team has a Top 5 or Top 10 set of Use Cases it is then time for the business 
to allocate resources. From our experience there will always be 10X more Use Cases 
than resources and, unfortunately, many of the Use Cases will be left on the shelf 
while the Internal Data Science capability begin their journey to build business 
value.
From our experience a Scrum Team of 3-5 dedicated resources to deliver each Op-
portunity works well, with this number scaling up or down depending on the 
nature and difﬁculty of the work. Principles that we have found to work are:
- Small autonomous teams are ideal
- Teams should work in an agile way 
- User feeback is critical to direct teams towards business value
- The teams should integrate into the business - an IT and business repre-
sentative should be on the team to ensure that the work is practical, rele-
vant and can be implemented
- A range of skills - covering Consulting, Data Science, Data Engineering, 
Data Visualisation, System Integration, Data Management and Software 
Development are usually required to deliver value 
7
 Given the Supply/Demand gap to deliver on the Opportunities it is often sensible 
to consider external Data Science teams to deliver some of the Use Cases. This 
makes sense when the following holds true:
 
- The value that can be unlocked is so great it does not make sense to wait 
for Internal teams
- External teams have solved the problem before and can quickly imple-
ment the solution
- External teams have skills that the Internal Teams do not have (eg. Experts 
at Image Classiﬁcation and Anomaly Detection to check for Claims Fraud 
on PDF-ed Invoices)
- There is no sensitive internal data involved so issues such as privacy, GDPR 
and POPI are not relevant
BELOW IS AN EXAMPLE OF A PRIORITISED LIST OF USE CASES WITH INTERNAL 
AND EXTERNAL TEAMS ASSIGNED
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Improving Contactability
Improve Credit Scoring
Who to Hire / Fire
Fraud Detection
Improving Customer Service
Improving Digital Marketing
Internal Teams
External Teams
8
 3. DELIVER VALUE
Once the Opportunities have been allocated teams the real fun starts. To keep 
teams honest we have found that a scorecard should be set at the outset of each 
Use Case to keep the team both mindful of the problem they’re trying to solve and 
accountable to the work they’re doing.
- To weight the factors selected in the previous step and then generate a 
‘scientific answer’ to what the priorities should be
- Have an afternoon workshop where the team goes through the Oppor-
tunities and then votes (eg. using Google Forms) for their Top 5 Use Cases
- To agree a Decision Maker (eg. CEO) who has the ﬁnal say at the end of 
the process
In addition to this we have believe that a Business Sponsor should be allocated to 
each team with fortnightly check-ins and monthly SteerCos. The team should 
work in an agile manner using Sprints, Daily Scrums and back-logs to manage the 
outcomes.
9
 ABOUT EXPLORE
EXPLORE is a next generation learning institution on a mission to deliver Digital 
Skills at scale. It has worked with many Blue Chips, both locally and globally, help-
ing them transform to become more Data-Driven and Insights-led.
Our services include:
BUILDING A PIPELINE OF DATA UPSKILLING YOUR
TALENT FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION CURRENT WORKFORCE
EXPLORE teaches a range of cours- We have a range of short and long 
es that include Data Science, Data  courses for your workforce so that 
Analytics, Data Engineering and  they are ready to reset their skill-sets 
Data Translation where you can  and turbo-charge their careers into 
sponsor the next generation of  the Digital Age.
digital talent.
PLACING SCARCE DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND
SKILLS INTO YOUR BUSINESS SERVICES
We have access to a long list of  We have some of the best Scientists 
talented skills that we can match to  around who have decades of experi-
your company’s needs to best set  ence solving problems, both locally 
you up for success. and globally. Currently we’re work-
ing for Blue Chips in South Africa 
and across the UK in the Utulities 
and Financial Services industries.
10
 EXPLORE-DIGITAL.NET
 