The Future of
Learning and
Development
Driving core strategic value
 4IR: Not for the feint-hearted
Learning and Development functions need to evolve quickly as the Fourth Indus-
trial Revolution (4IR) unfolds at a rapid pace. Half of the jobs today will not be 
around in 5 years and half of tomorrow’s jobs do not exist yet. Machines are becom-
ing more capable and replacing humans at increasing speeds leaving organisa-
tions playing catch up to acquire, upskill and reskill an ever changing employee 
base that works alongside these machines.
6 Factors shaping the future of learning technology:
DIGITAL 
6
LEARNING
MOBILE 
5
LEARNING
PEER-TO-PEER 
4
LEARNING
PROJECT-BASED 
3
LEARNING
EXPERIENTIAL 
2
LEARNING
PERSONALIZED 
1
LEARNING
1
 We are fast moving to a world of complex digital skills, cross-functional teams, 
remote working and agile, project-based delivery structures ﬁlled with young, dig-
ital natives who have different ambitions than the traditional workforce.
 
In South Africa there is the additional complexity of Employment Equity, anemic 
economic growth and the BBBEE Scorecard to worry about. Added to this are a 
set of outdated accredited courses that teach skills that are redundant in our Digi-
tal Age. Yet companies still spend money on these to score the points they need 
for their BBBEE Scorecard.
How do Learning and Development Executives earn their keep in this fast-moving 
environment? 
The Challenge
EXPLORE was given the task to build a Data Science Academy for a large Telecom-
munications organisation that wanted to drive scarce Digital Skills into its business 
as well as the broader South African economy. The project included the require-
ment to maximise BBBEE Skills Development points.
Maximising BBBEE Skills Development points
Driving scarce Digital Skills into its business 
Driving these scarce skills into the broader
South African economy
Delivering a clear RoI on its investment
2
 The Solution
EXPLORE built a ﬁrst of its kind Data Science Programme, recruited 100 smart 
youngsters and delivered a practical year-long programme. The design principles 
of  this  intervention  were  to  teach  critical  digital  skills  that  would  quickly  be 
absorbed by an economy that urgently needs them.
Details of the programme are included below:
BUILD A WORLD-CLASS DATA SCIENCE PROGRAMME
EXPLORE built a bespoke Data Science Programme for the client. The programme 
was built by top local academics (ex Head of Actuarial Science UCT) and practi-
tioners (ex Chief Actuary Nedbank) that delivered the latest cutting edge Data 
Science tools, techniques and platforms to students. 
RECRUIT THE BEST 
EXPLORE recruited 100 learners from around the country. These students were a 
diverse  mix  of  students  from  different  backgrounds,  qualiﬁcations,  ages  and 
socio-economic upbringings. All had to pass through EXPLORE’s tough 3-step 
recruitment process. Over 10,000 students applied. Only 100 were granted scholar-
ships. The group were 98% representative of South Africa’s population.
TEACH REAL-WORLD PROBLEM SOLVING
EXPLORE taught students practical problem solving skills. The curriculum was a 
series of Sprints where students were put into teams to solve problems with dead-
lines. We found that the best way to teach complex topics is through the practical 
application of them.
WORKING WITH THE CLIENT ON THEIR PROJECTS
The second half of the academic calendar involved teams being set up to solve the 
client’s actual problems. Real problems were set up with actual client data and 
sponsors in place to manage and direct the problem solving process.
3
 100
Students
58% 42%
Female: 42% Male: 58%
15% Post Graduates
43% Graduates
Education
42% Matric
Student Results
The results of the year long programme were compelling. Retention, graduation, 
placement and performance rates were high. Client satisfaction was also high 
across project delivery, student etiquette and EXPLORE delivery.
4
 95% R360,000 93%
Average Starting
Graduated Placed
Salary
45 9/10 27%
Days on average Employer NPS In the Financial
to get placed of 9/10 Services Industry
Beneﬁts
The beneﬁts for the client were signiﬁcant. The project delivered well across 4 key 
dimensions having a signiﬁcant return on the investment.
For 18M Investment
1 ~10 Maximum BBBEE Points Points
2 ~R40M - R50M Consulting Value Solutions
3 30 Top Talent Hired Talent
5
 4 R4M Rebates Refund
The business ended the year as a BBBEE Level 1 Provider, putting out offers to hire 
30 of the Data Scientists (with no recruitment fee payable) and roughly R50M in 
consulting revenue back to the business from the students’ projects!
Our Recommendation
Too often L&D spend is an expense item on the Income Statement where money 
is spent exactly how it was spent 10 years ago. Instead we think L&D Executives 
should be thinking about L&D spend differently:
As a strategic investment in growing the talent
pool of the business
As a means to build out the digital talent it needs to
survive and thrive in the Digital Age
As an investment that has a measurable RoI
As an initiative that is core to the business 
6
 As a recruitment strategy to get the best
young (and often hidden) talent into the business
As a brand building exercise 
7
 ABOUT EXPLORE
EXPLORE is a next generation learning institution on a mission to deliver Digital 
Skills at scale. It has worked with many Blue Chips, both locally and globally, help-
ing them transform to become more Data-Driven and Insights-led.
Our services include:
BUILDING A PIPELINE OF DATA UPSKILLING YOUR
TALENT FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION CURRENT WORKFORCE
EXPLORE teaches a range of cours- We have a range of short and long 
es that include Data Science, Data  courses for your workforce so that 
Analytics, Data Engineering and  they are ready to reset their skill-sets 
Data Translation where you can  and turbo-charge their careers into 
sponsor the next generation of  the Digital Age.
digital talent.
PLACING SCARCE DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND
SKILLS INTO YOUR BUSINESS SERVICES
We have access to a long list of  We have some of the best Scientists 
talented skills that we can match to  around who have decades of experi-
your company’s needs to best set  ence solving problems, both locally 
you up for success. and globally. Currently we’re work-
ing for Blue Chips in South Africa 
and across the UK in the Utulities 
and Financial Services industries.
8
 EXPLORE-DIGITAL.NET
 