MACHINE LEARNING
PROSPECTUS
 Table of Contents
1. EXPLORE Overview
2. Why Machine Learning?
3. Curriculum Overview
a. Module 1: Python Fundamentals
b. Module 2: Python Data Structures
c. Module 3: Classiﬁcation Techniques
d. Module 4:Regression Techniques
e. Module 5: Unsupervised Learning
f. Module 6: Deep Learning
4. EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real 
world
5. Contact Information 
 EXPLORE Overview
EXPLORE is a next generation Learning 
Institution  that  teaches  students  the 
skills of the future. From Data Science to 
Data Engineering to Machine Learning 
to  Deep  Learning  we  deliver  cutting 
edge courses to satisfy your hunger to 
learn
learn. Our Programmes are built by an amazing Faculty -  we 
employ some of the world’s most talented Scientists who have 
experience solving difﬁcult problems on a global stage. 
Our philosophy is to teach our students how to solve problems 
in the real world. We emphasise team-work, collaboration and 
working  within  constraints,  under  pressure,  with  deadlines 
while  understanding  context,  audience  and  implementation 
challenges. We are not a theoretical institution (although we 
cover  the  theory)  -  we  are  a  ‘practical,  hands-on, 
roll-up-your-sleeves and get stuff done’ kind of institution. As 
real-world Scientists who have delivered impact in the world of 
work we’re well positioned to deliver these skills. 
EXPLORE  launched  during  2013  and  since  then  has  taught 
1,000’s of students and solved many problems for businesses 
across multiple Industries across the world. We’re reinventing 
education and invite you to join us to change things for the 
better.
 
 Why Machine Learning?
Four megatrends are fundamentally changing the shape of our 
world: 
1. Vast amounts of data are being generated every minute. 
2. The  processing  speed  of  our  machines  is  increasing 
exponentially.
3. We  now  have  cloud  providers  who  can  store  insane 
amounts of data for a few dollars. 
4. Powerful  open  source  algorithms  that  can  read,  write, 
translate and see are now available to everyone. 
All of these things above mean that it’s becoming easier and 
quicker  to  produce  models  that  can  analyze  bigger/more 
complex data and deliver more accurate results – even on a 
very large scale. By building prediction models a business has a 
better  chance  of  identifying  proﬁtable  opportunities  –  or 
avoiding unknown risks.
 Curriculum Overview
The course will start by covering the basics of programming in 
python  -  building  functions  to  automate  analysis.  After  the 
foundations have been set, participants will master the model 
building process and the various machine learning algorithms 
to use as well as exploring techniques such as clustering and 
natural language processing. In the ﬁnal phase participants will 
dive  deeper  into  the  more  complex  machine  learning 
techniques - deep learning, where they will cover all the various 
neural networks.
Phase  Module  Weeks
Programming Python Fundamentals 3 weeks
Python Data Structures 3 weeks
Machine Learning Classiﬁcation Techniques 4 weeks
Regression Techniques 4 weeks
Unsupervised Learning 4 weeks
Deep Learning 4 weeks 
 Module 1
Python Fundamentals
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project: Build a ﬁnancial calculator
What is covered in Module 1:
Python Programming Basics
➔ What is programming
Basic Concepts
➔ Installing Jupyter environment
➔ Pseudo code and debugging concepts
➔ Interactive vs scripting mode
Variables,  ➔ Print statements
Expressions and  ➔ Working with primitive data types - variables, 
Statements strings, integers, ﬂoating points, booleans
➔ Math functions and relational operators
➔ Importing modules
Logic and Functions
➔ Conditional statements - IF and ELSE IF
Working with 
➔ Working with lists 
Logic
➔ For loops and while loops
➔ Break | Continue principles
Writing  ➔ How functions work - basic syntax
Functions ➔ Creating and working with functions
➔ Parameters in functions
➔ Local and global variables
 Module 2
Python Data Structures
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project:  Build functions to select the most optimal football team
What is covered in Module 2:
Data Types
➔ What is a String?
Working with 
➔ What is a Number?
Basic Structures
➔ What is a Boolean?
➔ Working with Strings, Numbers, Booleans
Working with  ➔ Lists and Tuples Semantics
Lists and Tuples ➔ Lists and Tuples Operations
➔ Working with Comparisons
➔ Working with Statements
Dataframes and using Libraries
➔ Sets and Dictionaries Semantics
Working with 
➔ Sets and Dictionaries  Operations
Sets and 
➔ Working with Comparisons
Dictionaries
➔ Working with Statements
Working with  ➔ Importing Data - using Numpy and Pandas 
Data Sets libraries
➔ Working with Data Frames
➔ Retrieving and Storing Data
➔ Transforming Data
 Module 3
Classiﬁcation Techniques
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project: Predict if someone will take out a personal loan or not
What is covered in Module 3:
Pre-processing and Model Building
➔ Basics of Scikit Learn library in Python
Preparing data for 
➔ Deﬁne features and labels
modelling
➔ Train/test split
➔ Encoding categorical features
➔ Standardizing features
Steps to build a  ➔ Overview of classiﬁcation
model ➔ Logistic regression models
➔ Build and train models in python
➔ Make predictions using trained model
➔ Test model output - confusion matrix, 
classiﬁcation report
Classiﬁcation Algorithms
➔ K nearest neighbors
Algorithms for 
➔ Decision trees
classification 
➔ Random forests
models 
➔ Support vector machines
Optimizing  ➔ Optimizing model performance by tuning 
model  hyperparameters
performance ➔ Gridsearch techniques
➔ Which models to use when
 Module 4
Regression Techniques
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project: Using features of a house alone, predict the sale price
What is covered in Module 4:
Regression Algorithms
➔ Overview of regression
Steps to build a 
➔ Linear regression models
model
➔ Train models and make predictions
➔ Regularization techniques - Ridge, Lasso
➔ Test model output - MSE, MAE, RMSE
Algorithms for  ➔ K nearest neighbors
regression models ➔ Decision trees
➔ Random forests
➔ Support vector machines
➔ Optimizing model performance by tuning 
hyperparameters
Dimensionality Reduction
➔ Determining signiﬁcant features - linear and 
Feature selection
non-linear methods
➔ Variance Thresholds to drop features
➔ Correlations Thresholds
Features  ➔ Principal component analysis
extraction ➔ Linear discriminant analysis
➔ Interpreting extracted features and 
transforming them back
 Module 5
Unsupervised Learning
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project: Cluster customer reviews into themes
What is covered in Module 5:
Natural Language Processing
➔ Overview of NLTK library in python - for NLP
Overview of NLP
➔ Removing punctuation and symbols
➔ Tokenizing text
➔ Stopwords and removing them
Analysing text ➔ Lemmatization of words 
➔ Bag of words
➔ Sentiment analysis
Clustering
➔ What is clustering?
Hard and 
➔ Various forms of clustering - hard, hierarchical, 
Hierarchical 
soft
Clustering
➔ K-Means Clustering
➔ Hierarchical Clustering
Soft Clustering ➔ Gaussian Mixture Models
➔ LDE clustering of text
➔ Labelling data using cluster output
 Module 6
Deep Learning
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Project: Predict the characters present in a handwritten image
What is covered in Module 6:
Artiﬁcial neural Network
➔ Overview of a neuron
How a Neural 
➔ Structure of a neural network
Network works
➔ Backpropagation and gradient descent
➔ Learning rate and batch sizes when training a 
neural network
Building and  ➔ Building classiﬁcation / regression ANN 
using ANN’s models in keras
➔ Make predictions using ANN and test model 
output
➔ Tuning hyperparameters (learning rate, 
batch size, nodes in each layer)
Other Neural Networks
➔ Building classiﬁcation / regression CNN models 
Building and 
in keras
using CNN’s
➔ Make predictions using CNN and test model 
output
➔ Tuning hyperparameters
Building and  ➔ Building classiﬁcation / regression RNN 
using RNN’s models in keras
➔ Make predictions using RNN and test model 
output
➔ Tuning hyperparameters
 EXPLORE Philosophy: 
Solving problems in the real world
At EXPLORE we focus on building our student’s ability to solve 
problems in the real world. Building things that work and make 
a difference is hard - that’s what we teach. 
We’re not a traditional learning institution that spends weeks 
teaching  matrix  multiplication  on  a  whiteboard  (although 
understanding  that  is  useful)  -  we’re  a  practical, 
solution-orientated  institution  that  teaches  our  students  to 
work  in  teams,  under  pressure,  with  deadlines  while 
understanding context, constraints and the audience. 
Our courses are typically broken into Sprints where we teach a 
core set of concepts within the framework of solving a problem 
in a team with a tight deadline.
Students cycle from Sprint to Sprint solving different problems 
in  different  teams  as  they  build  this  core  muscle  over  the 
course.
 Contact Information
For any admissions related enquiries mail us on: 
admission@explore-ai.net
For any general enquiries mail us on: 
general@explore-ai.net 
Visit: www.explore-datascience.net 
 