Data Maturity
Where are you
on your journey?
 The Road to Excellence
The journey to becoming an end-to-end data-centric organisation that makes 
quality data-driven decisions at high velocity is difﬁcult and long. Many organisa-
tional habits and reﬂexes need to die to get there. Nothing short of a total transfor-
mation of the culture, people and processes are required. Like any transformation, 
the process is slow and painful.
Maturity is much more than having the best Data Scientists who build the best 
models. That is the easiest part of the journey. The difﬁcult part is mobilising and 
transforming the entire organisation to behave entirely differently to how they 
behaved before.
In this paper we share how we view an organisation’s Data Maturity and what are 
the behaviours, practices and methodologies that indicate where an organisation 
sits on the maturity curve.
VISUALISATION 
5 COMMUNICATION AND 
IMPLEMENTATION
AGILITY 
CULTURE AND  4
ORGANISATIONAL IMPACT
ANALYTICS 
3 TOOLS AND 
TALENT
DATA 
DISCOVERABILITY AND  2
INFRASTRUCTURE
STANDARDS, 
1 STRUCTURES AND 
BEST PRACTICE CODES
1
 Five Key Dimensions  
We think there are ﬁve dimensions to be mindful of during the journey. These are:
1. STANDARDS, STRUCTURES AND BEST PRACTICE CODES
This is the boring but important part. Organisations are big places that often 
stretch across multiple countries, business units and divisions. To enable solutions 
to scale at speed there must be consistent standards and practices in place so that 
different teams can work seamlessly together. 
Often a Centre of Excellence needs to be put in place to drive this agenda. This 
Centre will be in charge of setting standards, reviewing code and monitoring per-
formance of Production models. They are also sometimes in charge of solving 
some of the big problems or building some of the core models that can be rolled 
out.
The work is difﬁcult and thankless: setting up the various frameworks, methodolo-
gies, Committees and best-practice guidelines to ensure consistency, excellence 
and minimum standards is not easy. These best practices need to be a living docu-
ment and change as the technology landscape changes. Not many organisations 
get this right as this work is at the back of the queue for the Data Science commu-
nity (who would rather be writing code than writing documents).
Unfortunately, we also ﬁnd the inevitable politics when a Centre of Excellence is 
Standards Structures Practice Codes
2
 2. DATA, DISCOVERABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Without a solid data foundation an organisation cannot get very far on its journey. 
It surprises us how many organisations trip up at this starting point. Although 
there has been decades of investment in data warehouses and large enterprise 
data  solutions,  many  organisations  have  data  environments  that  are  poorly 
deﬁned with missing tables, dictionaries and patchy governance.
Data governance has received signiﬁcant attention from all the companies we’ve 
worked with. Efforts to drive availability, security, consistency and integrity are set 
at a Board level and taken very seriously. Yet, despite this, the data environment 
often requires lots of work to get it to a point where the Data Science capability can 
begin. 
Add to this the new world of blending structured and unstructured data in the 
cloud within data lakes and we ﬁnd that companies have large gaps to ﬁll in this 
area. 
Data Discoverability Infrastructure
What makes it even more difﬁcult is the numerous pieces of data legislation 
emerging that prohibit the sharing, consumption and use of data. This often 
leaves companies paralysed with fear, leaving many business decisions to Compli-
ance Departments who naturally will say “No” as a reﬂex. 
3
 3. ANALYTICS, TOOLS AND TALENT
We ﬁnd you can tell a lot about a company’s maturity by spending an hour with a 
few of their Analysts. The tools they use, the qualiﬁcations they have and the types 
of models they use reveals a lot.
A sure sign that there is some work to do are a team that last studied 5+ years ago 
and largely work on Excel and SQL. Another sign that there are some problems is 
when analysts are unable to install open source software (eg Python) as this is a 
3-month IT request.
With the exponential advances in machine learning algorithms, cloud computing 
and open source technologies we love it when we see agile teams of Scientists 
who are using the latest technology and continuously learning. This is quite rare in 
large organisations but quite common in nimble start-ups.
Analytics Tools Talent
4. AGILITY, CULTURE AND ORGANISATIONAL IMPACT
Although subjective and hard to measure these items are some of the most 
important.  Without  the  right  culture  across  the  organisation  Data  efforts  are 
doomed to fail from the start. What is needed is support from the CEO down-
wards where data-driven decisions are non-negotiable at every level.
4
 What we love to see are small autonomous teams set up to solve big, thorny prob-
lems. Organisations that give smart creative teams the space and freedom to 
solve problems are the ones that make the fastest progress. We also ﬁnd that 
organisations that have an appetite to experiment and rapidly test the latest 
advances in an agile way are the ones that capture the most value. 
What works is companies that gives smart creative digital teams the space and 
freedom to solve problems using new methods that have not been tried before.
Organisational
Agility Culture
Impact
5. VISUALISATION, COMMUNICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Actually deriving real business value from your Analytics efforts is an art unto itself 
and the difﬁculty under-estimated. Moving from neat PowerPoint presentations 
to production-ready models that the front-line uses is not a trivial task.
To get this right entails an organisational muscle that most do not have: the ability 
to build practical solutions that non-technical stakeholders understand and that 
can be implemented amid  the messiness of the current IT systems. Once this is 
achieved the even harder task of change management across the organisation is 
required.
Only mature organisations continuously roll out Data Science solutions into pro-
duction that improve decision making that business adopts as a matter of course.
5
 Visualisation Communication Implementation
EXPLORE Maturity Matrix
Below is a matrix we use to help us assess the maturity of an organization with the 
various levels set out to see:
STANDARDS,  DATA,  ANALYTICS,  AGILITY, CULTURE AND  VISUALISATION, 
STRUCTURES AND  DISCOVERABILITY AND  TOOLS AND  ORGANISATIONAL  COMMUNICATION AND 
BEST PRACTICE  INGRASTRUCTURE TALENT IMPACT IMPLEMENTATION
Reports Shared Amongst 
BELEGVINENL E1 R  AutoInnodmivioduusalyl  OInp Berlaactek  Box LimitAendd D Hataar dU Tsoe dR, eSptororeddu cLeocally  UOnlddV eTarolsuotlaesn ,O Adfvi nDegraa tOgafe S P Tcoaiewlenencrte ,A Nnod   RemWovoIenrdkte  FIgnrr oQamlu T aOor trBeguralsyni niCseaystcsiloens;;  Not  WAnitahl yOstths;e TNro oS U tRanekdaeelh rEsoftlfadonertdr s T; oD iSfﬁhcaurelt  
YELLOW BELT
INBTELLRUEMVEE EBLDE 2ILA TTE  RLeogousCleao rCm Dopilslaacrbuinosgrsai oNtinoo ntFe oWsruitmh s  SeaLCrocethsn iOtnrgaf lD lFyao Wtra W iUthhs eaDtdi fI, ﬁsS cNtuoerlteeydd e d PrSomTboaloerlmts  PA SentodaIptn Ael eNmlg Uaoetsrnuiinttrhseg;m  DOseu; stCcdlraeiptaetrid v e  AOdAvdvaeonrplcyte  ATsoc;  NaNdoeBetwu mUs Isiinncef edoTse rTsmahmaattl i SMolnou wAchn T doB  y  TeISncEtthaexntpriniclcaa aRilnl e CA ApTunouosd rdtNto iCsoem lnSnueh-cnTreaeksr;yce Rlhd Hen Wpaicoraidrtlth  Ts o  
ELXEPVEERLT 3S   FoMruPamArnonu cTaaeollsy lMysti  cFEosonn rCfimtooormrac elAimsdne;d udC n MeAintnaytndraa lg e  InCBteeinrgnt rDaala lAltyan,R  EdSea epSstrtysor  uTUdocus teAcudecr,ec Ledas, rsSg tAeonlryed d   SAmnPPQadrreou tPrb efProlsoeetrvmimooepnns lW se WA  AeUleglnsll;oldi ;nA r PiSgstrkth eRrimundecgicsct ;et GuMinvroiteono  TdIgdone  o lsls   OAFroglgrao nDrBiiestuhacsitmsiinoiosne nTs Lssh;o  aDAotnek Dcsa erlTyisvotieio cA nCsn srBaitluiycirlaidcl  s  ASrteiAct unOldaf  tDHeao WswPheh bTrafhotoae rTrimerd aAsinm lTgghso aArtitr Che mlDeaosr ilnyg  
RED BELT Nature
Amazing Talent, Using The 
Extensive Big Data Sets Used  Latest ML Techniques And  Appetite To Experiment; Rapidly 
Best Practices Codiﬁed Into  (Both Internal And External,  Platforms; Asking The Right  Test Latest Advances In An Agile  Interactive Real-Time Dashboards 
Organisation With Clear Review,  Structured And Unstructured),  Question And Solving For  Way; Output Integral To  For Non-Technical Users To 
BLLNAEICVNKEJ ALB SE4 L T Do3c LuimMnSeaeisgnn Onatag fO tDeiofmefn fAee Onnndftc lB e MC;e eAosntdn tPearllar yalt cictisc e;  EaAsinlyd S SeeaIcnrucfhrraeas;b tWrleue,c lRlt ueGrpoervoedrnuecidb le  FrTohnUgtpPieederriarg fOtohinfrt mAg Pn aOraonflb cyMletei ocmMds;ese R,tl srOei cAansln -;T Tdhim e e  RVO1a0rlg0uamen I'inss taOotfO i ToVuhnate;l puI Onuesrt iDgsgaehnptises naDtdriio vOnen;    MCoondseulsm Aen; OdU uCsetlpersau rUt sOnnd eInrsptuantsd /  
Prescriptive In Nature
6
 To assess the maturity we typically spend a week in the organisation interviewing 
various Executives across the organisation as well as key role players in the Data 
teams. We score the organisation across the 5 Dimensions (15 Areas) above and 
end with a scorecard that assesses the company across the matrix.
Once we have completed the EXPLORE Maturity Matrix we sit with business and 
- Their ‘centre of gravity’ - where they sit across the matrix and how mature 
they generally are
- Where the big gaps are in the organisation
-  A  robust  plan  on  what  initiatives  and  activities  to  focus  on  -  in  what 
sequence - to move the company forward. 
7
 ABOUT EXPLORE
EXPLORE is a next generation learning institution on a mission to deliver Digital 
Skills at scale. It has worked with many Blue Chips, both locally and globally, help-
ing them transform to become more Data-Driven and Insights-led.
Our services include:
BUILDING A PIPELINE OF DATA UPSKILLING YOUR
TALENT FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION CURRENT WORKFORCE
EXPLORE teaches a range of cours- We have a range of short and long 
es that include Data Science, Data  courses for your workforce so that 
Analytics, Data Engineering and  they are ready to reset their skill-sets 
Data Translation where you can  and turbo-charge their careers into 
sponsor the next generation of  the Digital Age.
digital talent.
PLACING SCARCE DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND
SKILLS INTO YOUR BUSINESS SERVICES
We have access to a long list of  We have some of the best Scientists 
talented skills that we can match to  around who have decades of experi-
your company’s needs to best set  ence solving problems, both locally 
you up for success. and globally. Currently we’re work-
ing for Blue Chips in South Africa 
and across the UK in the Utulities 
and Financial Services industries.
 
8
 EXPLORE-DIGITAL.NET
 