Vacancy : Senior Data Engineer
Vacancy : Senior Data Engineer
 
EXPLORE is looking for a talented individual who has a flair for solving difficult problems and a passion for teaching. As a Senior Data Engineer
your primary experience and proven track record should be in the design, development, implementation and maintenance of scalable and robust
data pipelines and integrated solutions to scale models developed and used by Analysts and Data Scientists. 
EXPLORE is also a learning institution and as such lecturing experience at a Higher Education Institution or University is highly desired. 
Finding a spiritual home within the learning environment within the Academy, you will also be tasked with the distillation of your knowledge in the
form of creating curricula content, facilitating relevant course lectures, and delivering training in the form of bootcamps to audiences of various
technical levels. 
As a Senior member of the EXPLORE rocket, you will also lead teams and people in solving difficult problems. You will be expected to deliver
frequently, while being given loads of autonomy and responsibility to do this.
Responsibilities:
Focused development of content that teaches and assesses Data Engineering
Deliver technical bootcamps to upskill corporate South Africa
Ability to design and develop scalable, automated ETL solutions to populate and aggregate data from multiple sources.
Ensure data quality of variable, large, complex data sets
Running a small team of engineers, scientists and developers
Designing and implementing cloud-based infrastructure specifications. 
Take ownership and accountability of data and code quality
Independent, self motivated with good time management and communication skills
Able to work in a highly dynamic start-up environment
Requirements:
A Masters Degree in a relevant Engineering or Scientific field ( Software Engineering and Systems Development preferred)
Lecturing / Teaching experience in a Higher Education Institution or University (highly desired) 
At least 3-years work experience in a related STEM field
Portfolio of projects that illustrate a focus on collecting, transforming, managing data
Experience with Git and Github
Experience with CI/CD technologies
Top academic performance
Evidence of interest in continual learning (e.g. online course completion, presented talks and contributions to open-source projects)
Ability to work effortlessly in Python, SQL, Shell scripting
AWS/Azure certified an advantage
Proven experience in Big Data Tools (Hadoop / Spark / Hive / Kafka … )
 
How to apply
Please send a recent CV and a cover letter to careers@explore-ai.net
 
 