https://explore-datascience.net/home/faq
H2: How Can We Help You?
Paragraph: 
Have a question? Maybe someone else has asked it before.
Scroll down for answers to the qusetions we get asked
most.












Introduction




H3: Introduction











Courses




H3: Courses











Pricing




H3: Pricing











Most Asked




H3: Most Asked
H2: Introduction
Q: How do I know which course is right for me?
A: You can use our handy tool to find the course for you - click the "Find Your Course" button on the homepage.
Q: How do I apply?
A: All applications happen via our website. Select the course and location (on campus or online) which works for you and click Apply Now. For on campus study, there are various 
requirements, for online applications it is simpler.
Q: Do I qualify to apply?
A: For on campus study there are some qualifying criteria, which can be found in the T’s and C’s of our Money-Back Promise. For online study, anyone qualifies!
Q: Is an EXPLORE qualification industry recognised?
A: EXPLORE Data Science Academy graduates are Amazing People, doing Amazing Things. Our Alumni are highly sought after and more than 90% of them have found industry related 
employment within 6 months of graduating.
Q: I've registered but I didn't get confirmation?
A: The first step is to check your Spam or Junk mail folders. Sometimes the internet gremlins hide our emails there. Alternatively, log into your student dashboard and check 
that you completed all the steps for application. Look for the sign-in button on the top right of the website page.
Q: Are there career services for online students?
A: Our career services team is willing to help and support all students. There is a host of useful material in our online learning platform which is available to all EXPLORE students. One-on-one career services sessions can be arranged if motivated for.
Q: What if I realise the course I have signed up for isn't for me?
A: We offer a pay as you go structure to our self funded students. If at any time you wish to discontinue the course, just send us 1 months notice.
Q: If I am unsuccessful, can I apply again?
A: Yes! Although, spots are limited and highly coveted, and we are not able to offer a place to everyone, we run several intakes throughout the year. If your interest in your 
chosen course remains, please apply again.
Q: How does the application process work?
A: At EXPLORE we value aptitude and attitude, and we assess these traits through a stepwise application process for on-campus study:
Application and online aptitude test - assesses thinking skills, logic and reasoning
Online Bootcamp - a combination of learning and testing 
Interview on campus
Successful applicants join our ranks as an EXPLORER

H2: Courses
Q: How can I find my favorite course?
A: You can use our handy tool to find the course for you - click the "Find Your Course" button on the homepage.
Q: What are the differences between online and on-campus courses?
A: Online courses are our distance-learning solution. Students needn’t attend classes on campus and are free to study at hours which suit them. Our flagship on-campus courses 
required students to be present on an EXPLORE campus for 40 hours per work week i.e. they learn with others on-site during working hours.
Q: What is the difference between short courses and long courses?
A: Long courses run over the course of more than 6 months, whilst short courses are 3 - 6 months long.
Q: What is the best course for me?
A: This depends on what your constraints are - can you study full time on campus, or do you need the flexibility of online study. On-campus is the premium experience, backed up 
with a Money-Back Promise! Still not sure… Use our handy tool to find the course for you - click the "Find Your Course" button on the homepage.
Q: What qualification will I have at the end?
A: We are SETA Accredited and our Data Science course is at NQF level 5. Upon completion of our courses, you will receive a completion certificate.
Q: What support is available for online students?
A: Webinars will be scheduled for content briefing, and, we use an online chat platform which gives you access to the student community and course facilitators.
Q: Is there a part time study option?
A: Our online courses are ideal for part time study. They require discipline and focus to complete.

H2: Pricing
Q: What is the difference between being on a payment plan, and being sponsored?
A: EXPLORE offers limited places for qualifying students to be sponsored by a corporate organisation. This programme includes 6 months of course work (conducted full-time, on 
campus) and 6 months of project and internship work i.e. students study for 12 months in total. All tuition is covered and students are awarded a stipend for living expenses. 
Whilst employment is not guaranteed, students have the opportunity to work with their sponsors during the internship phase to showcase their skills. EXPLORE works closely with 
students to support their workplace readiness and employment security. Students on a payment plan pay for their own studies. Those completing a full-time, on-campus long (6 
month) course are eligible for the EXPLORE Money-Back Promise, whereby EXPLORE will refund tuition fees should a student complete the course and not be employed within 6 months 
of completing the course. T’s and C’s apply.
Q: What are the terms and conditions of the money-back guarantee?
A: You can view the T's and C's of the EXPLORE money-back guarantee here.
Q: Am I eligible for sponsorship?
A: Corporate sponsorship is available to South African Nationals between the ages of 18 and 35 for our full time on-campus Courses (1yr long). Competition for these places is 
extremely high.

H2: Most Asked
Q: How to apply?
A: All applications happen via our website. Select the course and location (on campus or online) which works for you and click Apply Now. For on campus study, there are various 
requirements, for online applications it is simpler.
Q: Am I eligible for sponsorship?
A: Corporate sponsorship is available to South African Nationals between the ages of 18 and 35 for our full time on-campus Courses (1yr long). Competition for these places is 
extremely high.
Q: What is the best course for me?
A: This depends on what your constraints are - can you study full time on campus, or do you need the flexibility of online study. On-campus is the premium experience, backed up 
with a Money-Back Promise! Still not sure… Use our handy tool to find the course for you - click the "Find Your Course" button on the homepage.
Q: What qualification will I get at the end?
A: We are SETA Accredited and our Data Science course is at NQF level 5. Upon completion of our courses, you will receive a completion certificate.
Q: What does it cost?
A: EXPLORE offers limited places for qualifying students to be sponsored by a corporate organisation. This programme includes 6 months of course work (conducted full-time, on 
campus) and 6 months of project and internship work i.e. students study for 12 months in total. All tuition is covered and students are awarded a stipend for living expenses. 
Whilst employment is not guaranteed, students have the opportunity to work with their sponsors during the internship phase to showcase their skills. EXPLORE works closely with 
students to support their workplace readiness and employment security. Students on a payment plan pay for their own studies. Those completing a full-time, on-campus long (6 
month) course are eligible for the EXPLORE Money-Back Promise, whereby EXPLORE will refund tuition fees should a student complete the course and not be employed within 6 months 
of completing the course. T’s and C’s apply.
Q: What support is available for online students?
A: Webinars will be scheduled for content briefing, and, we use an online chat platform which gives you access to the student community and course facilitators.

H2: Didn't Find Your Question?
Paragraph: 
If you are not able to find the answer to your question,
feel free to contact us. Our customer support will kindly
help you.

