A Data Science
Team
Choosing the right asset
 allocation strategy
 Setting up the Dream Team
A few years ago it was common practice for an organization to ‘just get a few Data 
Scientists on a team’ to solve the problem. Put differently: ﬁnd a few pink unicorns, 
put them in a room, wave a wand and watch the magic unfold. Unfortunately, it is 
not this simple.
 
To deliver value a team requires a combination of different skills to be effective. 
These skills/roles are expanding quickly and will continue to grow as businesses 
become more mature in this space. 
ANALYTICS TRANSLATOR
Analytics translators play a critical role in bridging the technical expertise of data 
engineers and data scientists with the operational expertise of marketing, supply 
chain, manufacturing, risk, and other frontline managers. In their role, translators 
help ensure that the deep insights generated through sophisticated analytics 
translate into impact at scale in an organization.
Analytics translators should combine a deep understanding of domain knowl-
edge and of the company itself. Many translators will come from quantitative 
ﬁelds and possess advanced critical thinking and problem-solving abilities. How-
ever, translators do not need to get bogged down in the smaller details of model 
building and deep analytics, but rather focus on project management and have a 
working understanding of the models that are often used to solve particular busi-
ness problems, e.g. RNNs for sequential data. 
BUSINESS 
SKILLS
Business  Delivery 
Leaders Managers
Data  Analytics 
Architects Translator
Workﬂow 
Integrators
TECHNOLOGY  ANALYTICS 
SKILLS Data  SKILLS
Scientists
Data  Visualization 
Engineers Analytics
1
 DATA SCIENTIST
A  Data  Scientist  uses  scientiﬁc  methods,  algorithms  and  systems  to  extract 
insights from structured and unstructured data. Data Scientists have a strong 
blend of mathematics, computer science and statistical skills and have strong 
problem-solving capabilities. They also possess the softer communication skills 
that help them translate complex model output into valuable business input. 
A Data Scientist typically has an advanced level of education (Master’s degree or 
PhD) as the role requires a specialised depth of knowledge. Most data scientists 
come from quantitative ﬁelds, with the largest group coming from Mathematics 
and Statistics, followed by Computer Science and Engineering. 
Having an advanced degree is a necessary but not a sufﬁcient condition for being 
a Data Scientist. The key to being a successful Data Scientist is to continue learning 
even  after  formal  education.  This  includes  online  courses,  competitions  (e.g. 
Kaggle) and certiﬁcations in relevant platforms (e.g. Amazon’s AWS Cloud).
Example: 
A Data Scientist typically possesses the following:
Good knowledge of Python and/or R
A knack for statistical analysis and predictive modeling
Experience with SQL and NoSQL databases
A knack for statistical analysis and predictive modeling
2
 Solid understanding of machine learning techniques
Knowledge of data management and visualization
techniques
MATH, STATS, 
ALGORITHMS
Data  Data 
Engineer Analyst
Data 
Scientist
SOFTWARE  DATA 
ENGINEERING COMMUNICATION
DATA ENGINEER
Data Engineers are the data professionals who prepare the “big data” infrastruc-
ture to be analyzed by Data Scientists. They are engineers who design, build and 
integrate data from various resources, and manage big data. Then, they write 
complex queries on that, make sure it is easily accessible, works smoothly, and 
their goal is optimising the performance of their company’s big data ecosystem.
3
 Data Engineers typically focus on coding in a wide range of programming lan-
guage from Java and Scala to Python, cleaning up data sets and developing data 
pipelines, and dealing with requests from Data Scientists as their data needs 
evolve.
Data Engineers are the crucial link between the models developed by Data Scien-
tists and their execution in a production environment. They usually possess a deep 
knowledge of data storage and warehousing solutions, and programming frame-
works  such  as  Hadoop  and  Spark  that  can  help  you  source  data  and  run 
data-heavy implementations on a clustered data architecture.
Example: 
Advanced working SQL knowledge and experience
working with relational databases, query authoring (SQL)
as well as working familiarity with a variety of databases
Experience building and optimizing ‘big data’ data
pipelines, architectures and data sets
Experience performing root cause analysis on internal and
external data and processes to answer specific business
questions and identify opportunities for improvement
Strong analytic skills related to working with
unstructured datasets
4
 Experience with relational SQL and NoSQL databases,
including Postgres and Cassandra
Experience with object-oriented/object function scripting
languages: Python, Java, C++, Scala, etc
SKILLS
Advanced  Advanced 
Math/Statistics Programming
Analysis
Distributed 
ML/AI
Programming Systems
Big Data
Advanced  Data 
Analytics Pipelines
Data Scientist Data Engineer
DATA ANALYST
Data Analysts are experienced data professionals in their organization who can 
query and process data, provide reports, summarize and visualize data. They have 
a strong understanding of how to leverage existing tools and methods to solve a 
problem, and help people from across the company understand speciﬁc queries 
with ad-hoc reports and charts.
5
 Data Analysts are typically skilled in data processing and manipulation, using 
mostly Excel to do so, although analytics dashboard platforms such as Tableau and 
Qlik Sense provide new tools for data-rich reporting. 
Example: 
A Data Analyst typically possesses the following:
Passion for data, automation and a curious learner of
new concepts and technologies
Extensive SQL programming experience 
Experience of tools like Tableau, QlikView or PowerBI 
Good knowledge of Microsoft Excel
Good verbal and written communication skills 
NEXT PAGE SHOWS A SET OF DATA ANALYIST REQUIRED SKILLS IN A DIAGRAM
6
 Knowledge  Data 
About  Mining & 
Analytical  Data 
Tools Auditing
Data  SKILLS Testing 
Visualisation Skills
Basic 
Machine 
Statistical 
Learning
Skills
AI ENGINEERS
AI Engineers build, test, and deploy AI models, as well as maintain AI infrastruc-
ture. They are problem-solvers who can navigate between traditional software 
development and machine learning implementations. 
Example: 
An AI Engineer can have many responsibilities in IT organizations, including:
Coordinating between Data Scientists and Business
Analysts
7
 Converting machine learning models into APIs so that
other applications can access them
Testing and deploying models
Developing minimum viable products based on
machine learning
Automating processes by utilizing machine learning
Using AI to empower the company with novel capabilities
BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPERS
Business Intelligence Developers are data experts that interact more closely with 
internal  stakeholders  to  understand  the  reporting  needs,  and  then  to  collect 
requirements, design, and build BI and reporting solutions for the company. They 
have to design, develop and support new and existing data warehouses, ETL pack-
ages, cubes, dashboards and analytical reports.
8
 SOFTWARE DEVELOPER
A software developer is an individual that builds and create software and applica-
tions. He or she writes, debugs and executes the source code of a software applica-
BUSINESS OWNER
This is someone who knows the business problems, processes and people inti-
mately and who actively guides the delivery of the Scrum Team. 
DATA MANAGER
This is a management role, focused on ensuring the efﬁcient and effective opera-
tion and usage of data. The role acts as an interface to other data roles in the com-
pany (e.g. Data Engineers,  Data Scientists and Business Owners), ensuring effec-
tive integration of the Data Management process with other processes in order to 
meet service level requirements. 
DATA QUALITY ASSURER
This role is responsible for maintaining the quality of company datasets and is sup-
ported by the Data Manager. In respect of data quality, this role is required to 
establish standards, rules and processes which support data integrity and custom-
DATA ARCHITECT
A Data Architect is responsible for determining how data will ﬂow into the busi-
ness, how it will be stored and how it will be eventually consumed. This involves 
understanding how different IT structures will be used to enable the data to ﬂow 
easily between different data entities.  
Specialisations within Jobs
Within  each  of  these  roles  there  can  be  various  specialisations  across  prob-
lem-type and tool-set.
9
 Data Analysts are typically skilled in data processing and manipulation, using 
mostly Excel to do so, although analytics dashboard platforms such as Tableau and 
Qlik Sense provide new tools for data-rich reporting. 
Example: 
A Data Analyst typically possesses the following:
Building Credit Scorecards
Building Recommender Engines
Developing Pricing Optimisation algorithms
Scientists could also specialise in a particular tool-set which would need to ﬁt with 
the tools, platforms and architecture of the organization that they work at. For 
example Scientists could go long on:
- AWS, Azure or GCP
- C++, Java or Scala
- Python, R or Julia
- Tableau, PowerBI or Alteryx
10
 Our Recommendations
Hiring a group of clever Scientists does not equate to
effective problem-solving 
Hire a mix of skilled Engineers, Analysts, Scientists and
Developers with an awareness of how their skill sets
interact and feed off of each other
Ensure that each member feels a sense of ownership
of the problem, and knows that they are a vital piece
to reaching the desired outcome
Let your team continue to play, learn and sharpen their
skills when they are “deep in the matrix”. This broadens
their toolkit to work on more interesting and valuable
use cases down the line
11
 ABOUT EXPLORE
EXPLORE is a next generation learning institution on a mission to deliver Digital 
Skills at scale. It has worked with many Blue Chips, both locally and globally, help-
ing them transform to become more Data-Driven and Insights-led.
Our services include:
BUILDING A PIPELINE OF DATA UPSKILLING YOUR
TALENT FOR YOUR ORGANIZATION CURRENT WORKFORCE
EXPLORE teaches a range of cours- We have a range of short and long 
es that include Data Science, Data  courses for your workforce so that 
Analytics, Data Engineering and  they are ready to reset their skill-sets 
Data Translation where you can  and turbo-charge their careers into 
sponsor the next generation of  the Digital Age.
digital talent.
PLACING SCARCE DIGITAL PRODUCTS AND
SKILLS INTO YOUR BUSINESS SERVICES
We have access to a long list of  We have some of the best Scientists 
talented skills that we can match to  around who have decades of experi-
your company’s needs to best set  ence solving problems, both locally 
you up for success. and globally. Currently we’re work-
ing for Blue Chips in South Africa 
and across the UK in the Utulities 
and Financial Services industries.
11
 EXPLORE-DIGITAL.NET
 