ADVANCED PYTHON 
FOR DATA SCIENCE
PROSPECTUS
 Table of Contents
EXPLORE Overview 02
Why Advanced Python Programming? 03
This Course Is For You If You Want To 04
Who Should Take This Course? 05
How You Will Learn 05
Requirements 06
Your Success Team 07
Your Teaching Team 08
Curriculum  09
Python Fundamentals 09
Python Data Structures 10
EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real world 11
Contact Information 12
01
 EXPLORE Overview
EXPLORE is a next generation Learning Institution that teaches students the skills of 
the future. From Data Science to Data Engineering, from to Machine Learning to 
Deep Learning we deliver cutting edge courses to satisfy your hunger to learn. Our 
Programmes are built by an amazing Faculty - we employ some of the world’s most 
talented Scientists who have experience solving diﬃcult problems on a global stage.
Our philosophy is to teach our students how to solve problems in the real world. 
We emphasise teamwork, collaboration and working within constraints, under 
pressure, with deadlines while understanding context, audience and 
implementation challenges. We are not a theoretical institution (although we cover 
the theory) - we are a ‘practical, hands-on, roll-up-your-sleeves and get stuﬀ done’ 
kind of institution. As real-world Scientists who have delivered impact in the world of 
work we’re well positioned to deliver these skills.
EXPLORE launched during 2013 and since then has taught 1,000’s of students and 
solved many problems for businesses across multiple Industries across the world. 
We’re reinventing education and invite you to join us to change things for the 
better.
02
 Why Advanced Python Programming?
Four megatrends are fundamentally changing the shape of our world: 
Unlimited Data Incredible Speed
Vast amounts of data  The processing speed of our 
are being generated  machines is increasing 
every minute.  exponentially.
Cloud Integration Open Source Algorithms
We now have cloud providers who  Powerful open source algorithms 
can store insane amounts of data  that can read, write, translate and 
for a few dollars.  see are now available to everyone. 
Data Analytics is the skillset used to harness the power of these tectonic shifts in our world. Over 
the last 4 years, the rise of job opportunities for data analysts has become almost level to those 
traditionally seen for software engineering positions.Learning how to code like a ninja will set you 
on the path to being a successful Data Scientist.
03
 This Course Is For You If You Want To
This course is 100% for you if these are what you are looking for:
Improve Your Skills
Learn the latest advances to turbo-charge your career and set you up 
for success in the digital age
Learn New Techniques
Learn what matters - invest in your career by studying the latest 
algorithms, cloud solutions, open source tools and data science 
technologies
Have a Support Team
EXPLORE has a large Faculty of Scientists with lots of Academic and 
real-world experience who are available to support you through the 
learning process. 
Solve real-world problems
EXPLORE exposes you to real-world problems by delivering 
project-based deliverables where you need to apply your knowledge 
to solve problems
04
 Who Should Take This Course?
This course is geared towards analysts who can programme and who want to close the gaps in 
their analytical skills and knowledge. It will be beneﬁcial to professionals who need to rapidly upskill 
and enhance their data science and programming toolkit with demonstrable and practical skills.
It is also beneﬁcial to professionals working in a range of business areas, including but not limited 
to marketing, sales, ﬁnance, and operations who want to learn how to use data and programming 
to increase eﬃciencies and identify new opportunities for their organisation.
This course is technical in nature. It is therefore recommended that you have a basic 
understanding of mathematics and statistics. Basic knowledge of at least one programming 
language would be beneﬁcial and is recommended but is not required.
How You'll Learn
Every course is broken down into manageable, weekly units, designed to accelerate your learning 
process through diverse learning activities: 
Work through downloadable content and online instructional material
Interact with your peers and learning facilitators through real-time chat 
platforms and regular live webinars.
Enjoy a wide range of interactive content, including video lectures, coding 
challenges, hackathons, and presentations.
Investigate real-world case studies.
Learn how to use Jupyter Notebook, GitHub, Power BI, AWS, and various 
machine learning models.
Apply what you learn each week to quizzes, coding challenges and ongoing 
project submissions, culminating in the ability to use real-world data to solve a 
real-life problem.
05
 Software Requirements
BASIC REQUIREMENTS
Basic computer literacy is essential for successful completion of the course. To complete the 
course, you will need a current email account and access to a computer and the internet, as well as 
a PDF Reader. You may need to make use of the Google oﬃce suite, which is free to anyone with a 
Gmail account. Alternatively, Microsoft Oﬃce applications (such as PowerPoint and Word) may be 
used. We recommend using Google Chrome to access the course, but any popular browser should 
suﬃce.
TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
● Recommended OS: Since we make use of Windows based apps (such as Power BI), Windows 10 
is recommended (Windows 7 minimum)
● Processor: Minimum i3. Baseline higher than 2GHz 
● RAM: Minimum 4GB 
● Bandwidth: 20GB data per month should be suﬃcient, but will vary based on your personal 
activity 
● Communication: Webcam and Microphone
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Certain activities may require additional software and resources. In such cases, we will ensure that 
they will operate properly on a device with the above-mentioned speciﬁcations and will be clearly 
communicated to you during the completion of the course. Please note that Google, Vimeo, YouTube, 
Udemy and Datacamp may be used in our course delivery, and if these services are blocked in your 
jurisdiction, you may have diﬃculty in accessing course content. Please check with a Course 
Consultant before registering for this course if you have any concerns about this aﬀecting your 
experience with the Online Campus.
06
 Your Success Team
EXPLORE has a range of Faculty members at hand to assist you if you get stuck during your learning 
journey. We have experts readily available to assist you for when things get tricky - they have a wealth 
of experience with the material and are a friendly message away to help you on your way.
Head Tutor
A subject matter expert who'll guide you through content-related 
challenges. 
Success Manager
Your one-on-one support available during working hours (8am-5pm 
SAST) to resolve any challenges that you may have
Administration Support
Available 24/7 to solve your software, tech and administrative queries 
and concerns. 
07
 Your Teaching Team
These EXPLORERs built the course you will go through - they have loads of experience working with 
the tools and technologies you will learn and had fun building something awesome for you to learn.
SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT
Jaco Jansen van Rensburg
Lead Instructor
Jaco is a Lead Data Scientist in the EXPLORE Data Science Academy. He has spent the bulk of his 
career on scientiﬁc and industrial research and holds a PhD in Mechanical Engineering with a focus 
on mathematical modelling and optimisation.
YOUR COURSE CO-CONVENORS
These subject matter experts guide the course design and appear in a number of course videos, 
along with a variety of industry professionals. 
Jonathan Gerrand
Lead Instructor
Jonathan is an electrical engineer specialising in biomedical image processing and machine learning 
(MSc). Having been a founding member of the Data Science for Impact and Decision Enablement 
(DSIDE) program within the CSIR, he is passionate about teaching, innovating for good, and equipping 
others to reason within a data driven world. Jonathan loves the outdoors, is unashamedly nerdy, and 
relishes a compelling debate.
Jonathan Botha
Data Scientist
Jonathan has his PhD in Genetics. He decided to leave the world of Academia and pair his unique 
perspective and insight with Data Science in order to see what strange and interesting things unfold. 
He also unashamedly prefers tea to coﬀee.
08
 Curriculum
Advanced Python for Data Science
Duration: 3 Months Recommended Time: 60 hours
Tools Learnt:
What is covered in this course:
A. Advanced Python  
Python programming
Pseudo code and debugging concepts
For loops and while loops
Code review, Github and unit testing 
Advanced booleans, conditionals, loops and breaks
Advanced Logic and functions 
Greedy algorithms
Sorting algorithms
Linear Programming 
Graph Algorithms 
Dynamic Programming
09
 Advanced Python for Data Science
B. Advanced Python Data Structures
Data types 
Working with Strings, Numbers, Booleans
Lists and Tuples Semantics
Working with large data sets
Optimising performance
Dataframes and using libraries
Importing Data - using Numpy and Pandas libraries 
Advanced Dataframes 
Maps and hashing
Recursion 
10
 EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real world
At EXPLORE we focus on building our student’s ability to solve problems in the real world. Building 
things that work and make a diﬀerence is hard - that’s what we teach.
We’re not a traditional learning institution that spends weeks teaching matrix multiplication on a 
whiteboard (although understanding that is useful) - we’re a practical, solution-oriented institution 
that teaches our students to work in teams, under pressure, with deadlines while understanding 
context, constraints and the audience.
Our courses are typically broken into Sprints where we teach a core set of concepts within the 
framework of solving a problem in a team with a tight deadline.
1 2 3
Students cycle from Sprint to Sprint solving diﬀerent problems in diﬀerent teams as they build this 
core muscle over the course.
11
 ADVANCED PYTHON
FOR DATA SCIENCE
PROSPECTUS
Start a new career today by enrolling in one of our Data Science, Data 
Analytics or Data Engineering courses.
Admission Related Enquiries Mail:
admissions@explore-ai.net
General Enquiries Mail:
general@explore-ai.net
WWW.EXPLORE-DATASCIENCE.NET
 