DATA SCIENCE 
FOR HIGH SCHOOL
PROSPECTUS
 Table of Contents
1. EXPLORE Overview
2. Why Visualisation?
3. Curriculum Overview
4. EXPLORE Philosophy: Solving problems in the real 
world
5. Contact Information 
 EXPLORE Overview
EXPLORE is a next generation Learning 
Institution  that  teaches  students  the 
skills of the future. From Data Science to 
Data Engineering to Machine Learning 
to  Deep  Learning  we  deliver  cutting 
edge courses to satisfy your hunger to 
learn
learn. Our Programmes are built by an amazing Faculty -  we 
employ some of the world’s most talented Scientists who have 
experience solving difﬁcult problems on a global stage. 
Our philosophy is to teach our students how to solve problems 
in the real world. We emphasise team-work, collaboration and 
working  within  constraints,  under  pressure,  with  deadlines 
while  understanding  context,  audience  and  implementation 
challenges. We are not a theoretical institution (although we 
cover  the  theory)  -  we  are  a  ‘practical,  hands-on, 
roll-up-your-sleeves and get stuff done’ kind of institution. As 
real-world Scientists who have delivered impact in the world of 
work we’re well positioned to deliver these skills. 
EXPLORE  launched  during  2013  and  since  then  has  taught 
1,000’s of students and solved many problems for businesses 
across multiple Industries across the world. We’re reinventing 
education and invite you to join us to change things for the 
better.
 
 Why Data Science?
Four megatrends are fundamentally changing the shape of our 
world: 
1. Vast amounts of data are being generated every minute. 
2. The  processing  speed  of  our  machines  is  increasing 
exponentially.
3. We  now  have  cloud  providers  who  can  store  insane 
amounts of data for a few dollars. 
4. Powerful  open  source  algorithms  that  can  read,  write, 
translate and see are now available to everyone. 
Data Science is the skillset used to harness the power of these 
tectonic  shifts  in  our  world.  With  the  Data  Scientist’s  tool-kit 
almost any problem can now be solved.
It is no surprise that Data Scientists are one of the most highly 
paid and in demand skills of the 21st Century. In fact, the job 
‘Data  Scientist’  was  rated  the  ‘sexiest  profession  of  the  21st 
Century’ by the Harvard Business Review.
 Curriculum
Data Science for High School
Duration: 6 months Recommended Time: 100 hours
Tools Learnt:
What is covered in the course:
Program
➔ Intro to google colab
Building blocks to 
➔ Practical data science examples
analyse data
➔ Python data types - numbers, objects, 
variables, booleans, operators
➔ Conditionals, functions, loops
➔ DataCamp courses to sharpen python skills
Present
➔ Basics of data visualisation in Python using 
Visualising and 
libraries like matplotlib
interpreting 
➔ Using Bokeh library to create interactive 
insights
dashboards and charts
Predict
➔ Introducing the world of prediction
Make sense of 
➔ Build a linear regression model in Python
the future
➔ Statistical knowledge required for supervised 
learning
➔ Supervised learning algorithms using Scikit 
Learn library
➔ Classiﬁcation algorithms - logistic regression 
and support vector machines
 EXPLORE Philosophy: 
Solving problems in the real world
At EXPLORE we focus on building our student’s ability to solve 
problems in the real world. Building things that work and make 
a difference is hard - that’s what we teach. 
We’re not a traditional learning institution that spends weeks 
teaching  matrix  multiplication  on  a  whiteboard  (although 
understanding  that  is  useful)  -  we’re  a  practical, 
solution-orientated  institution  that  teaches  our  students  to 
work  in  teams,  under  pressure,  with  deadlines  while 
understanding context, constraints and the audience. 
Our courses are typically broken into Sprints where we teach a 
core set of concepts within the framework of solving a problem 
in a team with a tight deadline.
Students cycle from Sprint to Sprint solving different problems 
in  different  teams  as  they  build  this  core  muscle  over  the 
course.
 Contact Information
For any admissions related enquiries mail us on: 
admission@explore-ai.net
For any general enquiries mail us on: 
general@explore-ai.net 
Visit: www.explore-datascience.net 
 